+++
abstract = "With the development of decentralized networks, smart contracts, especially those for ERC tokens, are attracting more and more Dapp users to implement their applications. There are some functions in ERC token contracts that only a specific group of accounts could invoke. Among those functions, some even can influence other accounts or the whole system without prior notice or permission. These functions are referred to as contract backdoors. Once exploited by an attacker, they can cause property losses and harm users’ privacy.

In this work, we propose Pied-Piper, a hybrid analysis method that integrates datalog analysis and directed fuzzing to detect backdoor threats in Ethereum ERC token contracts. First, datalog analysis is applied to abstract the data structures and identification rules related to the threats for preliminary static detection. Then, directed fuzzing is applied to eliminate false positives caused by the static analysis. We first evaluated Pied-Piper on 200 smart contracts, which are injected with different types of backdoors. It reported all problems without false positives, and none of the injected problems was missed. Then, we applied Pied-Piper on 13,484 real token contracts deployed on Ethereum. Pied-Piper reported 189 confirmed problems, four of which have been assigned unique CVE ids while others are still in the review process. Each contract takes 8.03 seconds for datalog analysis on average, and the fuzzing engine can eliminate the false positives within one minute."
authors = ["Fuchen Ma, Meng Ren, Lerong Ouyang, Yuanliang Chen, Juan Zhu, Ting Chen, Yingli Zheng, Xiao Dai, Yu Jiang, Jiaguang Sun"]
date = "2023-04-26"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication = "ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology"
publication_short = "TSE"
selected = false
title = "Pied-Piper: Revealing the Backdoor Threats in Ethereum ERC Token Contracts"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3560264"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""

+++

**Citeable as**:


