+++
abstract = "Blockchain consensus protocols are responsible for coordinating the nodes to make agreements on the transaction results. Their implementation bugs, including memory-related and consensus logic vulnerabilities, may pose serious threats. Fuzzing is a promising technique for protocol vulnerability detection. However, existing fuzzers cannot deal with complex consensus states of distributed nodes, thus generating a large number of useless packets, inhibiting their effectiveness in reaching the deep logic of consensus protocols. In this work, we propose LOKI, a blockchain consensus protocol fuzzing framework that detects consensus memoryrelated and logic bugs. LOKI fetches consensus states in realtime by masquerading as a node. First, LOKI dynamically builds a state model that records the state transition of each node. After that, LOKI adaptively generates the input targets, types, and contents according to the state model. With a bug analyzer, LOKI detects the consensus protocol implementation bugs with well-defined oracles. We implemented and evaluated LOKI on four widely used commercial blockchain systems, including Go-Ethereum, Meta Diem, IBM Fabric, and WeBank FISCO-BCOS. LOKI has detected 20 serious previously unknown vulnerabilities with 9 CVEs assigned. 14 of them are memory-related bugs, and 6 are consensus logic bugs. Compared with state-of-the-art tools such as Peach, Fluffy, and Twins, LOKI improves the branch coverage by an average of 43.21%, 182.05%, and 291.58%."
authors = ["Fuchen Ma, Yuanliang Chen, Meng Ren, Yuanhang Zhou, Yu Jiang, Ting Chen, Huizhong Li, Jiaguang Sun"]
date = "2023"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication = "In Proceedings 2023 Network and Distributed System Security Symposium"
publication_short = "NDSS"
selected = false
title = "LOKI: State-Aware Fuzzing Framework for the Implementation of Blockchain Consensus Protocols"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "http://www.wingtecher.com/themes/WingTecherResearch/assets/papers/NDSS23.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""

+++

**Citeable as**:


